{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red217\green11\blue5;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c88946\c14202\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17820\viewh15920\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Slide 1 - Introduction\

\b0 With our project we wanted to address a growing online issue, the quest for truth. With fake news taking over our news feed, how do we know what is fact and what is fiction?\
\
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\

\b Slide 2
\b0 \
The quest beings with Figgit.\

\b \

\b0 \cf3 (click)\cf2 \

\b \
Slide 3
\b0 \
We live in an age where information is available in overabundance. Everyday we are bombarded with news stories on social media, television, radio and our mobile devices. While many of these stories sound true, it\'92s important to research anything we decide to pass on or repost to avoid spreading false or misleading information. So how do we research the news that we hear?  Where do we start and how do we know we can trust the results we come up with to be unbiased and true?\
\
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 4
\b0 \
The Figgit app seeks to solve these dilemmas by providing a comprehensive online search tool that provides background information on news articles and their sources. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 5
\b0 \
A simple keyword search returns relevant news articles based on the users location and the keyword entered in the search bar. The results will provide source information for each article along with a media bias rating scale. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 6
\b0 \
Search results are sorted by \cf3 (click) \cf2 keyword relevancy and \cf3 (click)\cf2  the users location. This helps to narrow down the search results and return only the most relevant articles to the search.\
\
Each search result contains the source, \cf3 (click)\cf2  headline, \cf3 (click)\cf2  publication date, \cf3 (click)\cf2  and author \cf3 (click)\cf2  of the article. \
\
It also contains a \cf3 (click)\cf2  Bias Rating scale that illustrates the media bias commonly associated with that particular news source. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 7
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The Bias Rating is based on news source reporting and its tendency to publish stories with a liberal, conservative or neutral view. The rating is defined by a row of boxes, with the red box depicting views from left to right, the far left being the extreme left or liberal view and the far right being the extreme right or conservative view.\'a0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 8
\b0 \
The ratings are based on data researched from various sources like \cf3 (click)\cf2  Market Watch, \cf3 (click)\cf2  Business Insider \cf3 (click)\cf2  and AllSides.com, a website that collects community feedback to present a media bias rating for online news sources.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 9
\b0 \
The purpose of the bias rating is not to tell the reader whether a story is accurate or fake news, but to provide the user with information pertaining to where the story originated while also providing additional stories on the same subject from an\'a0\cf3 (click)\cf2  alternate source. It encourages the reader to view information from a\'a0\cf3 (click)\cf2  different perspective and, ultimately, be\'a0\cf3 (click)\cf2  better informed.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 10
\b0 \
Our design process began with a discussion about the potential projects we could work on and what we hoped to achieve by completing the site. We decided on addressing the issue of fake news and media bias. We began searching various News Site API\'92s. We decided on NewsAPI.org because it offered the widest range of news sources available. We discussed the look and functionality of our site and concluded that a simple \'93Google\'94 like interface would work best. \
\
While coming up with a simple logo design and user interface layout, we developed the backend code to get data from the API servers and convert it to JavaScript objects. Once the UI development was complete, we then targeted the appropriate page elements to pull values from and push data to the page.\
\
Once the initial search and response process was working, we began adding more functionality to the site like location identification and language preference. We also added the Media Bias Rating scale based on research from numerous media rating sites.\
\
The final launch required more code development to refine the search results to return specific relevant data to the search query. Final bug fixes and code correction were done on GitHub. We utilized GitHub Projects and Slack to communicate during the project.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 11
\b0 \
Here\'92s a brief summary of the technologies we used in the development of Figgit and how they work.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf2 HTML - Provides the framework for the page. Displays all the graphics, text, input fields and a results section to post the search results data.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf2 CSS adds styling to the page, not only for aesthetics, but also to provide the user with a more intuitive interface.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
JavaScript - Adds functionality and controls the events that dynamically push and pull data to and from the page. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
jQuery is a concise JavaScript library that can be used to simplify common JavaScript events and functions for expedited website development.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Two API servers are used to collect data. www. newsAPI.org for media source data\'a0and www.googleapis.com for user IP location data. Results from these servers are pushed to the page as search results and user location information. The user location is also used to filter the search results by region.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
AJAX makes a call to the API servers so a Figgit search can be updated asynchronously by exchanging data with the News API and the geolocation API behind the scenes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
JSON formats the data that is returned by the AJAX call to an object array which we can easily be converted into Javascript objects.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Github is the site we used to collaborate and post changes while working on different areas of the scripts. The site is currently published on GitHub pages.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 20
\b0 \
Switch to Live Demo\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 21
\b0 \
Our plans for future development include:\
Refining data response to limit search results so that only articles relevant to the user search input will appear.\
Creating a database that will allow the user to rate articles and news sources and dynamically update Media Bias ratings accordingly.\
Filter news articles by region and offer translation options in various languages.\
Filter search results by the author of the article.\
And add an option for user to request more results if desired.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Slide 22
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf2 If knowledge is power, then research is the quest,\
and Figgit is where that quest should begin.  (pause) Let the quest begin.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0
\cf3 (click)}